== Why ==
We want to have an open source rdp client on Windows with multimedia redirection and all modern features freerdp offers. We do not want to depend on any other library like cygwin etc. We want a mostly statically linked, stand alone, installation free executable.

==Prerequisites==

* MS Visual C++ Express 2010 http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/en-us/products/2010-editions/express
* MS SDK http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=8279
* OpenSSL Library http://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html

I recommend that you get cygwin, too, but this is not necessary. If you install it, get git, too. If you do not have cygwin, try this: http://code.google.com/p/tortoisegit/ . Git is needed.

==Obtaining the source==
<pre>git clone git://github.com/FreeRDP/FreeRDP.git</pre>

==Getting the Project==
(TODO: Upload visual C project files to some site)
(TODO: Upload patch to sources to some site)

==Problems in the sources and fixes ==
This is what the patch adresses:

* Most problems arise from wrong order of includes. My suggested fix is to always include config.h first, and include <winpr/windows.h> there.
* libfreerdp-utils:pcap.c remove definition of struct timeval
* libfreerdp-util/bitmap.c bitmap types collide. Hack: Do not include <freerdp/types.h> and rather define uint8 et al directly there
* plugins: Definitions in rdpdr_constants.h collide with definitions in other includes. It is necessary to always include  rdpdr_constants.h as the first file

==config.h==
you need a config.h include, here is mine:

<pre> #ifndef __CONFIG_H
#define __CONFIG_H

#define FREERDP_VERSION "1.0"
#define FREERDP_VERSION_FULL "1.0.1"
#define FREERDP_VERSION_MAJOR 1
#define FREERDP_VERSION_MINOR 0
#define FREERDP_VERSION_REVISION 1

#define FREERDP_DATA_PATH "c:\\freerdp"
#define FREERDP_PLUGIN_PATH "C:\\freerdp\\lib"
#define FREERDP_KEYMAP_PATH "C:\\freerdp\\keymaps"

#define FREERDP_STATIC

/* Include files */
#define HAVE_FCNTL_H
/* #define HAVE_UNISTD_H */
#define HAVE_LIMITS_H
#define HAVE_STDINT_H
/* #define HAVE_STDBOOL_H */
/* #define HAVE_INTTYPES_H */

#define WIN32_LEAN_AND_MEAN 

#ifndef FREERDP_NO_WIN
#include <winpr/windows.h>
#endif

/* #undef HAVE_TM_GMTOFF */

/* Options */
/* #undef WITH_PROFILER */
#define WITH_SSE2
/* #undef WITH_NEON */
#define WITH_NATIVE_SSPI

/* Debug */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_CERTIFICATE */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_CHANNELS */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_CLIPRDR */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_DVC */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_GDI */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_KBD */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_LICENSE */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_NEGO */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_NLA */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_NTLM */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_TSG */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_ORDERS */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_RAIL */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_RDP */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_REDIR */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_RFX */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_SCARD */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_SVC */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_TRANSPORT */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_WND */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_X11 */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_X11_CLIPRDR */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_X11_LOCAL_MOVESIZE */
/* #undef WITH_DEBUG_XV */
#endif</pre>