h1. Eclipse IDE

While many programmers do not use an IDE, there are many advantages in using one to speed up your development process. I was previously using NetBeans IDE because I thought it had better support for C/C++ development, but recent updates in Eclipse changed my mind. It still isn't as perfect as I would like it to be, but it's getting pretty good.

"Eclipse":http://www.eclipse.org/ is one of the most popular open source IDE, and can be extended in a large number of ways. While Eclipse is popular for Java, it is also good for C/C++. Not all Eclipse bundles come with C/C++ support out of the box, so make sure you have "Eclipse CDT":http://www.eclipse.org/cdt/ installed. Since Eclipse is an extensible platform, you can install additional tools right within Eclipse by going to Help->Install New Software.

With the "Linux Tools":http://www.eclipse.org/linuxtools/ project, Eclipse can be integrated with various Linux profilers and advanced debugging tools, including my favorite, valgrind. Even though this is a major improvement over previous versions of Eclipse, full libtool integration is not yet available.

This guide assumes that you have taken the time to fetch the development sources using [[git version control]] (or, alternatively, a source snapshot). [[Compilation]] instructions should also be followed prior to this guide, since we need to generate the makefiles for Eclipse to use.

For applying this instructions you need to install Helios version of Eclipse.
Simplest method  - download latest "Eclipse IDE for C/C++ developers" package from http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/, unpack it to your home directory and run it directly. And if your system is Ubuntu - this link helps you save nervous and time with "strange black pop-up":http://tipstank.com/2010/05/23/solve-eclipse-black-pop-up-code-assist-box-in-ubuntu-10-4-lucid/.

h1. Creating Project

One of the advantages of cmake is that it can generate project files for a variety of IDEs, including Eclipse. Instructions on how to generate an Eclipse project can be found in the "compilation instructions":Compilation.

Once the project is created, you can import it in your current workspace:

# File -> Import
# General -> Existing Projects into Workspace
# Browse to project directory, click OK, then Finish
